Iss501 (#505)
Sage-Bionetworks/synapseDocs: articles/getting_started_clients.md

---
title: "Getting Started with Synapse Clients"
layout: article
excerpt: Use Synapse programmatically.
category: intro
order: 2
---

> # Get Started with Synapse Clients

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Introduction
```

> Clients provide a strategy to upload, download and query Synapse entities programmatically. This page provides installation and login instructions to get you started. Packages to interface and access data within Synapse are available for: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clients provide a way to use Synapse programmatically. This page shows you how to install and login to get you started. Packages to interface and access data within Synapse are available for: 
```

* Command Line
* Python
* R

## Command Line

> The Synapse command line client comes with the Synapse Python package. To install the Synapse command line client, please make sure that you have `Python` and `pip` installed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Synapse command line client is implemented in Python and comes with the Synapse Python package. To install the Synapse command line client, please make sure that you have `Python` and `pip` installed. 
```

[Instruction on `Python` installation](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[Instruction on `pip` installation](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/)

> After installing `pip` and `python`, in your terminal (MacOS) or Command Prompt (Windows), run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After installing `pip` and `python`, in your terminal (Mac OS or GNU/Linux) or Command Prompt (Windows), run the following command:
```

```
pip install synapseclient
```
```
synapseclient login "username" "password"
synapseclient -h
```

> [command line client](https://python-docs.synapse.org/build/html/CommandLineClient.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more documentation on the command line client see [here](https://python-docs.synapse.org/build/html/CommandLineClient.html).
```

## Python

> The `synapseclient` package See the [Python client docs](https://python-docs.synapse.org/build/html/index.html#more-information) for supported versions of Python. 

Reviewer: Complete this sentence, please!

Author: updated

```
pip install synapseclient
```
[Python client](https://python-docs.synapse.org/build/html/index.html)

## R

The `synapser` package is available for R version 3.4 and 3.5.  

```
install.packages("synapser", repos=c("https://sage-bionetworks.github.io/ran", "http://cran.fhcrc.org"))
install.packages("synapser")
```

```
library(synapser)
synLogin("username", "password")
```

To connect to Synapse with stored login credentials, visit the `synapser` [Overview page](https://r-docs.synapse.org/articles/synapser.html). Visit the [`synapser` R docs](https://r-docs.synapse.org) for complete documentation.

# To Report an Issue 

> Report client-specific issues or bugs at the [R client](https://github.com/Sage-Bionetworks/synapsePythonClient/issues), [Python and command line client](https://github.com/Sage-Bionetworks/synapser) Github Issues pages. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Report client-specific issues or bugs at the [R client](https://github.com/Sage-Bionetworks/synapser/issues) or [Python (including the command line client)](https://github.com/Sage-Bionetworks/synapsePythonClient/issues) GitHub Issues pages. If you have questions on how to use the clients to interact with Synapse, please ask in the [Synapse Help Forum](https://www.synapse.org/#!SynapseForum:default).
```
